docs/HACKING: Mention cpio as test dependency (#3781)
coreos/rpm-ostree: docs/HACKING.md

1. TOC
{:toc}

## Setting up a development environment

The majority of developers on rpm-ostree build and test it from a [toolbox
container](https://github.com/containers/toolbox), separate from the host
system. The instructions below may *also* work when run in a traditional login
on a virtual machine, but are less frequently tested.

> ### Via toolbx/Installing natively

Author: Yeah I was already wondering how to get that, thanks! I've tried to follow the new instructions in a fresh F36 container, and it ends up with this error in `make vmcheck`:

```
error: No image provided (use VMIMAGE, or cosa-builds/ or COSA_BUILDS)
```

When running `make vmcheck` in the coreos-assembler image it works. But I don't understand exactly what is different there... ?

> ### Via toolbx/Installing natively

Reviewer: Yeah, this is confusing. To summarize:
- in the toolbx/self-install path, you'd install cosa inside your container, which will give you `cosa` and `kola`
- in the buildroot container path, you'd build rpm-ostree using the buildroot container, but run the kola tests using [the canonical cosa container](https://quay.io/repository/coreos-assembler/coreos-assembler?tab=tags). For the `vmcheck` tests, you should be able to run `tests/vmcheck.sh` directly from the cosa container. We're slowly working on migrating our vmcheck tests to become kola tests to make this less awkward.

> ### Via toolbx/Installing natively

Reviewer: It's really tempting though to have the buildroot container just build and install cosa as well. We can't directly derive `FROM` it because the whole purpose of moving it to fedora-coreos-config was to decouple it (see https://github.com/coreos/fedora-coreos-config/pull/740). But cosa should be flexible enough to support being installed in at least Fedora N and Fedora N+1 userspaces (we really should add CI for that).

In fact, that's what I do myself in my pet container which I build for stable Fedora up to rawhide: https://github.com/jlebon/pet/blob/8c012dba5ccbaa4c9305c2f9effafefc3536e20b/build#L7-L22.

When developing either in a toolbx container or natively on your system, you
must install all the required dependencies. In the `ci/` subfolder, there are
scripts that will do this for you:

- **To install the build dependencies**: `./ci/installdeps.sh`
    - **Note**: This command must be rerun after the dependencies in
      `Cargo.lock` change. This will eventually be fixed.
- **To install the test dependencies**: `./ci/install-test-deps.sh`

Today rpm-ostree uses [cxx.rs](https://cxx.rs/) - the CLI tools for that aren't
packaged in e.g. Fedora; we ship the pre-generated source in the releases. It
is installed as part of the `installdeps.sh` script. Most importantly, it must
be reinstalled after you run `make clean` on the project.

> ### Using the [`fcos-buildroot` container][1]

Reviewer: Since we're linking just below, maybe we can drop the link here?

The [`fcos-buildroot` container][1] (Definition lives [here][2]) has all the
dependencies needed for building and testing included. As a consequence, it is
comparatively large (~ 2.5 GB). Since this is the same container used by the CI

> system, you can expect to achieve reproducible builds this way.

Reviewer: "reproducible builds" has a connotation which doesn't apply here.

Maybe just something like

```suggestion
system, this is useful for reproducing CI failures.
```

?

Author: Sounds good!

Otherwise, you can use e.g. `sudo dnf builddep rpm-ostree` to get
the rest of the build dependencies.

### Installing dependencies: testing

> In addition to the build dependencies mentioned above, the tests from `make
> check` require `cpio`, too.

Reviewer: We actually have a script to install test dependencies. We should mention it here. So e.g. instead of this, how about

````suggestion
In addition to the build dependencies mentioned above, the tests require various additional packages. You can install them using:

```
$ ./ci/install-test-deps.sh
```
````

?

Would be good to verify that it installs `cpio`, and if not you can add it to `testdeps.txt`.

Author: Done, cpio is in fact not pulled in by any of the packages in `testdeps.txt`. What also makes me wonder is that `cosa` doesn't seem to be present in the repos? At least I still can't `make vmcheck` after installing the test deps, and I can't find cosa via dnf either. Is there a deeper magic behind this?

Reviewer: Thanks, good point re. cosa. `make vmcheck` needs kola, which can be found in the cosa container.

OK I think the cleanest is to
1. enhance the buildroot image to include the test deps
2. recommend using the buildroot image here for building and testing

I did 1 in https://github.com/coreos/fedora-coreos-config/pull/1808. Do you want to do 2 here?

Author: 2 done. I took the liberty to do a bigger rewrite of the docs here because I found it pretty confusing to understand what needs to be done. I hope that's ok!
